0, "In this unit, we will discuss patterns of notes called 'scales' and the ways that notes can be played simultaneously to produce chords. " ;

1, "There are seven different notes in a scale. Each note in a scale is referred to as a scale degree. The notes repeat and the 8th degree is referred to as the 'octave'. For example, the C note at scale degree 1 is 'one octave' lower than the one at scale degree 8. These scale degrees also to the limits of our hearing range. 

Each scale degree has a function and, when a scale is played, gives some sense of tension as it resolving at the final note of the scale. 

Play the Scale Ascending and Descending, then click 'Scale Notes Repeat' to see that the notes in scale patterns can be thought of as repeating. ";

2, "The scale we've been working with is called the Major Scale--a scale starting with some pitch, built with the pattern whole step, whole step, half step, whole step, whole step, whole step, half step (or 2 2 1 2 2 2 1). There are however, many different patterns for scales built from whole steps, half steps, and even step-and-a-half steps! The scales (also called modes), are given names to distinguish them. In fact, the "Major Scale is also known as the Ionian Mode". The starting pitch and scale type defines what is called the key. For example the key of C Major is a major scale pattern starting on the note C. 
Play the scale Ascending and Descending, then change the key from C Major to D Major and play the scale again. Then, click 'more Scales…' and play those. As you can see there are many different types of scales. ";

3, "Multiple notes sounding simultaneously produce what is called harmony. When notes from the scale are sounded together, it produces a type of harmony called a chord. Each scale degree can have a chord built from it by simply adding chord tones to it--typically adding "every other" chord tone. The first note of the chord is referred to as the "root" of the chord. The second note of the chord is three notes away from the root (counting the root) and is referred to as the "3rd" of the chord. The third chord tone is the 5th. Chords can have more than three notes root 3rd 5th--additional chord tones can be added to produce "7th chords", "9th chords", "11th chords", and "13th chords". Three note chords are common and are referred to as triads because they are made from three notes--a root, a 3rd, and a 5th. 
Choose a chord from the menu, then click the arrows up and down to play through the 8 chords in each key. Note that you can increase or decrease the amount of notes added to each chord. ";

4, "The chords within each key are said to have a certain quality determined by the notes used to form the chord and the distance, or interval, between those notes. For example, a three-note chord is said to be Major in quality when it is made of three notes: a starting root note, a note a major third above that note, and a note a minor third above that note. A three-note chord is said to be minor in quality if it is made of a root note, a minor third, and a major third. For every major key, the 1, 4, and 5, chords will always be Major in quality, while the 2, 3, and 6, will always be Minor. The 7 chord, which is formed by a root, minor third, and another minor third, is said to be diminished in quality. Added notes beyond three notes are added to the chord's name. 
Choose a chord from the menu, then click the arrows up and down to play through the 8 chords in each key. Note that you can increase or decrease the amount of notes added to each chord.";