0, "In this unit, we will discuss some of the basics of music making starting with the concept of notes. This program is interactive: you can click on most things within the program in order to hear them. As you continue to work through this unit, look up terms and concepts that are unclear to you as this program provides a basic overview of musical concepts: a crash course, if you will." ;

1, "In music, the basic units are called notes. Notes are letter names that are used to reference sound waves that we can hear with our ears. For example, instead of saying 'that sound she's singing sounds like the frequency 440 cycles per second', we say 'that note she's singing sounds like the note A'. There are 12 notes names altogether each having a letter name and sometimes a symbol called a sharp (#) or a flat (b). 
Notes really have no defined 'starting point' or 'ending point'. As pictured when you click the 'Notes Repeat' button, if notes continued to the left they will become 'lower'. At some point, a note will be so low and rumbly that you will feel the vibration of it more than you hear it, like the bass rumble at a rock concert. As notes continue to the right, they become 'higher'. At some point, the notes will be so high that it sounds like ringing in your ears--like the day after a rock concert.";

2, "The distance, or 'interval', between two notes is measured in steps. For example, the distance from one note to the next highest one is one 'half step'. Two half steps equals a 'Whole step'. A note with a sharp (#) can be thought of as being one half step higher than the letter in its name. A flat (b) can be thought of as being one half step lower than the letter in its name. The note a half step higher than C is C# (pronounced C#), but the same note is also one half step lower than D, so it can also be called Db (pronounced D Flat).";


3, "Certain patterns of half steps and whole steps produce structures known as 'scales'. The basic 12-note scale is the one that has all of the notes present: the 'Chromatic Scale' (Chromatic meaning 'all of the colors'). It is essentially a pattern of all 'half-steps'. The more common scales used in popular music have 7 different notes and then the 8th note, the octave, which is a repeat of the first note. These scales are also pad from patterns of steps. For example, if you start at any note, and choose your next notes according the pattern 'whole step, whole step, half step, whole step, whole step, whole step, half step', you will have played a pattern known as the 'Major Scale', having started at one note and ended up at that same note one octave higher. There are many different types of scales all deriving from some pattern of steps. ";

4, "As mentioned in a previous exercise, the distance between notes is known as an 'interval'. In order to make it easier to describe the distance between notes, we use interval names to describe the number of steps between one note and the next. You already know the name of one interval: the octave--12 half steps from one note to another. It can get kind of annoying to say 'play C and then play the note 12 half steps above it' when you can say 'play C and then play the octave above it'. In the menu below, you can see the name of every interval interval as well as hear what they sound like. We will draw on this information in the unit that describes 'Chords'." ;

5, "In traditional music notation, notes are placed on lines and spaces. The lines and spaces designate the specific name of the note. There are two 'clefs': the G Clef, named so because it circles around the second line designating the note 'G', and the F Clef, named so because the two dots surround the fourth line designating the note 'F'. The note 'C' is on a line in between the two clefs; this pitch is referred to as 'Middle C'. If you encounter music notation like this, remember that it is a system designed to make it easier for you to represent and interpret musical ideas. For instance, instead of my saying 'Play the note C followed by the note E above the C and then the D below the E', a composer can draw these notes on a staff to represent his idea. Of course, once we know what notes to play, we can play these notes back on an instrument. The piano pictured here shows the relationship between the staff and the way the instrument is designed to play pitches. " ;